# Heirloom

The boomers ate the seed crop. Generation after generation of our ancestors handed down an inheritance to their children. By doing, so they propelled their descendants to greater and greater heights. If you inherited your grandfather's ax then you don't need to make your own, and you can get down to the business of chopping wood and creating something. Society did this too. It was generations upon generations that created the music, architecture, art, values, and wisdom that we depend upon. Its part of why even if a civilization-building movement were to start in Africa its reach would be limited. They would have to build roads, schools, and customs before they could even begin to approach the west.

The boomers ate the seed crop. The grain that was to be used as seeds for the next year's harvest is sacred and to be preserved. The boomers traded it for a 4-day cruise and a buffet pass. How many men born in 1955 have preserved the tools, weapons, homes, and virtues handed down to them from 1901? How many of them kept the gifts of their youth, so they could hand them down to you or your children? The factory-made crap they grew up using pales in comparison to turn of the century products, but they are miles above the garbage we can buy these days.

I was watching my daughter play with one of the three artifacts I have left from my great grandfather, a shoe brush. He fought in WW2 and did many remarkable things. My grandmother is the only living person left who can remember him, so when she dies all that will be left of him will be his medals, an ashtray, and a shoe brush. I can't imagine the shame that I would feel if all that I could hand down to my great-grandchildren was a collection of knickknacks. All that my daughter will know of her great grandfather will be vague allusions to stories no one ever bothered to tell me. I can not follow his example as I don't know it, none of his descendants ever will.

We have two duties. The first is to hand down things of value and teach that value to our children. I will give my children their grandfather's entrenching tool, they will learn to use it and care for it. Not just what he owned, but what he did will be given to them. Not to sell, but to keep and steward for their children. When I purchase things from a bike to a knife, to a book, to a belt I can choose to acquire crap for myself or something of lasting value for my son. 

I can, and will, choose to build an inheritance. I will do this on an individual and a collective level. We will hand down a church, a building, and a people. We will hand down a culture, with its own values, tales, heroes, and songs. We will hand down a community of friends and brothers. We will hand down gardens, support networks, recommendations, and embodied principles. I hope to teach my children the tales of their father and his friends, but also of all our forefathers.

We had floods pass through recently. As people threw away the damaged goods, piles and piles of IKEA shit ended up on the side of the road. Chipboard shit that swells like a tumor when wet, Allen key shit that can't handle being moved more than once, plastic veneer shit that sags and bows are three years of books. I bought some Chinesium chisels recently, within a month they were rusting. I wasted my money. Some cousins were going through their deceased father's shed, inside they found antique Stanley tools, and they sold them. Terry Pratchett made the point about cheap boots costing more than expensive ones. He also commented how rich families who buy a single solid wooden table spend less on tables than families that have to buy a new one every generation. I will be buying everything with an eye toward what will survive.

Our second duty is to scavenge and pillage the ruins of our society and homes. We must recover we never even knew we lost. Not just to the 1960s, but the 1660s, and 660s. There are heirlooms rusting and rotting in the backs of old rooms. There are statues that will be taken under our care or destroyed by the horde. There is music, art, poetry, literature, and history growing moldy waiting for the dump in our libraries. So much of what our forefathers created will crumble if we do not seize it.

It was recently ANZAC Day. The best call to action that my right-wing telegrams could offer was "buy a vet a beer and listen to their story". The reverence and respect honored to our fallen warriors boils down to getting up early once a year, going to the park, and maybe buying someone a drink. It's pathetic and hollow. I wouldn't be the first to point to the superficiality of burgers thanking everyone for their service while doing nothing to preserve the values that veterans thought they were fighting for.

Our obligations to our ancestors are much deeper. A real tradition would be to gather family and tell the tales of war. Relics, trophies, letters, and medals would be shown and explained. Children would hear stories told by fathers and grandfathers. Old family recipes would be made, so we could live as they did, making the most of rationed supplies. But no, after the parade it's treated like any other national piss-up. Instead, I will honor my ancestors and the ANZACs this year by collecting the stories and family history held by my grandmother. 

The boomers ate the seed crop. We walk among the ruins picking seeds, fruit, and wild growth. We will take what thrives, what survived, and plant anew. We will rebuild.
